I think it'd be really useful, probably
for a lot of folks to get some experience
doing node.js streams in the browser,
which we can do, of course.
So there's a package that I like to use
called websocket-stream to do this.
So why don't we go ahead and
write a server that,
I'll make a separate directory for this.
So we'll have our server, you have to
create an HTTP server to begin with,
so server is gonna do things
like serve up static files.
I like to use this package
called ecstatic for that, so
I'm just gonna quickly install
it in the background as I type.
Cuz I don't wanna have to write out
fs.createreadstream for all of the paths
that we're gonna take because we're also
gonna have to distribute some browser code
for this example.
All right, so do http.createServer, and
then we can let it ecstatic take
care of the http serving part,
so I'll let it serve out
of public directory.
So I have a public directory now,
and then we've got to listen on a port.
We've also now got to use the WebSocket
stream module to set up our WebSocket
server.
So this works just like creating a TCP
server with net.createServer, so you get
a duplex stream, that's by directional
that you could talk to the browser with.
So what that looks like is we
require a websocket-stream,
then you call wsock.createServer.
And then you have to give it your
HTTP server in this object, and
then you provide a function, and inside of
this function stream is a duplex stream
So we can do all of the things that
we're used to with duplex streams.
So for example, if we just want to make
an echo server, we could do stream,
stream.pipestream, for example.
Or maybe we'll do something
a little more fun,
like we'll create an echo server
that converts to uppercase first.
So we can make a little loud
transform to put in that pipeline,
so we'll need to load through first for
that, then in our loud function,
buf, enc, next, and
then we'll do next, null for
the errors,
buf.toString.toUpperCase, okay?
So that's all we need aside from some
client side code now and some HTML,
all right?
So that's our server,
let's build a client, so
in client,
we're also gonna load WebSocket stream.
So we'll require websocket-stream,
and what we can do then is.
So you have to give wsock a ws:// or
wss for SSL connections address which
looks like something like that for that.
So happens that run port 5000,
but if we weren't in the browser,
we actually know what port we're on
which is location dot or here I can.
Well, it's gonna be a location.host I
think it's gonna be like
localhost:5000 anyways.
So we get a duplex stream,
which is the stream object, so
now we can decide how to use it.
So we're gonna need
a little bit of boilerplate
stuff to kinda like have an input box,
and put it in the HTML and whatever.
So I'm just gonna whip up one
of those really fast, and
then we can play with our
example in the browser.
So I'm just gonna use some of
my favorite modules to do this,
this one's called the yo-yo,
it used template strings if you've ever
seen these before, it uses backticks.
I'm just gonna write it out and
you can see how it works.
So we need an update function, we're also
gonna need a way of latching onto the DOM.
So we'll create element, a div, and
we'll append that to the document body.
Okay, and then we need to call
html.update with our root element, and
then we can give it a block
of markup to insert.
So here, I'm gonna have a div, and
the div is gonna have a form, and
the form is gonna have
an input type=textbox.
And that's where we can type our messages
that we're gonna send to the server.
And then we need a way of handling submit
events, so we can do onsubmit like so.
So in our onsubmit function,
we need to prevent default so
that it doesn't try to like,
do a get form request things,
because we wanna handle that ourselves.
Then we can do this.elements,
we need to give our textbox a name,
I'll call it message.
So this.elements.msg.value is gonna be the
whatever string we type in the textbox.
So what we need to do is stream.write,
the message plus a new line, and
that gets sent to our server.
The final piece that we need to do is for
the data that comes back from the server,
we're gonna need to render that.
So I'll make a pre-tag, and
we can stick it into the DOM, so I'll
create an array called output, and
we can do output.join, just the string.
And we're gonna push on to that as
we receive data from the server.
So I can also require through even though
this is browser code, so our stream now,
right here, we can pipe into
a little function with through.
And then we can do
output.push(buf.toString.
It a lot to take in, but
this is all that we need
to have a streaming client,
that's gonna run in the browser,
display HTML and such.
So there's a final step that we need to
take if I've done everything correctly.
And that, aside from rendering the initial
code, I often forget to do that, so
it's gonna be remembered.
Yeah, and this.reset is a property
that's available on forms,
it just clears out all of the form
records, so that's handy to know.
Anyways, so we do all of this stuff,
now in the public directory,
we need to make some HTML.
This is the HTML that I like to write.
That's it.
Just to show you again,
very simple, body tag so
that you don't have to do any
DOM on ready shenanigans.
And just put your script tag in there,
and /body is probably a good idea, too,
I don't know.
Okay, so the final thing we need to do is,
we can run this tool called
browserify that I wrote.
A long time ago, you can install it
like this, you should probably do that,
it might take a while,
because it's got a lot of dependencies.
Once you have it, you can do browserify
client.js and by default, it writes to
standard out, so you can redirect
standard out into public/bundle.js.
And once you've done all of these things,
then you should be able to run the server,
and
you should be able to go to,
in a browser to localhost:5000.
And if I did everything correctly,
good, we see a textbox,
Hit enter, I know what it is,
I forgot to call the update function.
One moment, I'll fix that, call the update
function every time we modify the state.
Remember browserify again, whoops, because
I don't have it in the history for there.
There's also tools like Watcher File and
Budo that you can use to recompile
things every time you change your file.
Anyways, that's not for today's workshop,
the details of that
will be some other day.
Reoad, Hello, we strike that one as well.
No, now we have to debug this thing
that I live coded, let me think.